, rna onrvonav onar1rrcnrns. ' xxxi

proposes to continuethe chaplaincy while fortune smiles, and
expressly states that the vicar’s consent has been obtained.
Repeatedly the appointment of the chaplain is required to be
“without prejudice ’² to the church in which heis to officiata,
and it is stipulated similarly that the burning ot the gild
torches at funereis is tc be “without prejudice'’ to the churchea
as regards their customary lights. The meaning cf the phrase
is clear when it is remembered that each gild contained mern·
bers from different parishes; in the case of one dying in the
town, the gild must attend the funeral offices at the dead
member's parish chureh, which would be “prejudiced’' if the
funeral were less profitable to the charoli than that of an
ordinary parishioner. In the case ol members who vvere buried
away from Cambridge, the rule provided a celebration in the
church to which the gild was attached: special arrangements
were made for those who died near Cambridge. The pro-
minence given to these funeral benefits shews that the four-
teenth century gilds were the lineal descendants of the Angla·
Saxcn. The Cambridge gild cf thegns secured by their eleventh
century rule that they should be buried where they chose, and
fines were levied on members who did not assist at the funeral,
just as they are in these fourteenth century mles. The rule of
the Abbotsbury Gild is likewise very similar to those given
here.

Where no chaplain was kept, the gild “ caused ” the celebra·
tion of the messes connected with its annual festival in some
other way; in such cases the compulsory oblatione of the gild
members perhaps sufficed alone as valuable consideration.

Several of the gilde agreed by rule to incur the expense cf a
trental of messes (thirty) yearly for the souls of founders,
members and benefactore One promised 100 messes a year so
longas the gild had its own chaplain. For the purpose ol
recording the names of members, that they might be partakers
of the benefits of the mass, the gild hepta register. In some
cases an annual obit sufficed, and in others there was no
arrangement for the indefinite continuance of prayers for dead
members, ’

All the gilds required that some charitable relies should be

 

